Commands:
  help set   Help command can be used on its own or for a specific command.
  history    Show commands you have typed earlier.
  options    (or show options)
             Print options related to the exploit and show what variables are required to be set such as RHOSTS and RPORT (requred: yes)
             On the other hand, a post-exploitation module (/post) may only need SESSION ID. A session is an existing connection to
             the target system that the post-exploitation module will use.
  info       Show further information on any module.
  info exploit/windows/smb/ms17_010_eternalblue
             Display detailed information on the module such as its author, relevant sources, etc.
  show       Can be used in any context followed by a module type (auxiliary, payload, exploit, etc.) to list available modules.
  back       Leave the context.
  load <plugin_name>   Load plugin. Plugins are located in /usr/share/metasploit-framework/plugins/.
  show advanced   Show advanced options.
  search     Search the Metasploit Framework database for modules relevant to the given search parameter.
             You can conduct searches using CVE numbers, exploit names or target system. The “name” column shows the type of module (auxiliary, exploit, etc.)
             and the category of the module (scanner, admin, windows, Unix, etc.). The “rank” column shows exploits rated based on their reliability.
  search type:auxiliary telnet
  search type:exploit platform:windows cve:2021 rank:excellent microsoft
             Direct the search function using keywords such as type and platform.

Modules:
  RHOSTS     Remote host: the IP address of the target system. A single IP address or a network range can be set. 
             (/24, /16, etc.), (10.10.10.x – 10.10.10.y), file:/path/of/the/target_file.txt - file where targets are listed.
  RPORT      Remote port: the port on the target system the vulnerable application is running on.
  PAYLOAD    The payload you will use with the exploit.
  LHOST      Localhost: the attacking machine (your AttackBox) IP address.
  LPORT      Local port: the port you will use for the reverse shell to connect back to. This is a port on your attacking machine,
             and you can set it to any port not used by any other application.
  SESSION    Each connection established to the target system using Metasploit will have a session ID.
             You will use this with post-exploitation modules that will connect to the target system using an existing connection.
  ExitonSession 
             The module is used by meterpreter_reverse_tcp. Typical behavior is to sotp listening once we get our first shell back.
              If you want to catch multiple shells to try each of the binaries, set this value to false.

Setting Parameters:
  set        Override any set parameter
  set autorunscript migrate -f    Automatically migrate to a separate process upon exploit completion.
  unset      Clear any parameter value 
  unset all  Clear all set parameters
  setg       Set Globally: set a global value for all different modules that will be used until you exit Metasploit or clear it using the "unsetg" command
  unsetg     Clear any value set with "setg"
  exploit -z   Will run the exploit and background the session as soon as it opens
  exploit -j   Will run the exploit and background the session as soon as it opens
  exploit -e <encoder>   Specify the payload encoder to use (example: exploit –e shikata_ga_nai).
  check        Some modules support this option which will check if the target system is vulnerable without exploiting it

Sessions:
  background       Background the session prompt and go back to the msfconsole prompt (or use Ctrl-Z).
  sessions -i ID   Interact with any session.
  sessions -l      List available sessions (used when handling multiple shells).
  sessions -l -v   List all available sessions and show verbose fields, such as which vulnerability was used when exploiting the system.
  sessions -s <script>   Run a specific Meterpreter script on all Meterpreter live sessions.
  sessions -K      Kill all live sessions.
  sessions -c <cmd>   Execute a command on all live Meterpreter sessions.
  sessions -u <sessionID>   Upgrade a normal Win32 shell to a Meterpreter console.

Database:
  db_create <name>   Create a database to use with database-driven attacks (example: db_create autopwn).
  db_connect <name>  Create and connect to a database for driven attacks (example: db_connect autopwn).
  db_nmap            Use Nmap and place results in a database. (Normal Nmap syntax is supported, such as –sT –v –P0.)
  db_destroy         Delete the current database.
  db_destroy <user:password@host:port/database>     Delete database using advanced options.
  db_import <file.xml>  Importing Scan Results, after the import is complete, we can check the presence of the host's information in our database
                     by using the hosts and services commands. Note that the .xml file type is preferred for db_import.
  db_export -f xml backup.xml   back up our data if anything happens with the PostgreSQL service. This data can be imported back to msfconsole later
                                when needed
  hosts -h           Displays a database table automatically populated with the host addresses, hostnames, and other information we find about these
                     during our scans and interactions.
  services -h        It contains a table with descriptions and information on services discovered during scans or interactions.
  creds -h           Visualize the credentials gathered during your interactions with the target host.
  loot -h            command offers you an at-a-glance list of owned services and users. The loot, in this case, refers to hash dumps
                     from different system types, namely hashes, passwd, shadow, and more.

Workspaces:
  workspace                  List available workspaces
  workspace -a tryme         Add a workspace
  workspace -d tryme         Delete a workspace
  workspace -r               Rename workspace
  workspace -D               Delete all workspaces
  workspace <workspace_name>  Navigate between workspaces
  help                       Once Metasploit is launched with a database, the help command will show the Database Backends Commands menu
  db_nmap -sV -p- TARGET_IP  If you run a Nmap scan using the db_nmap shown below, all results will be saved to the database
  hosts/services             You can reach information relevant to hosts and services running on target systems from the nmap scan using the hosts and services commands
  hosts -h/services -h       Show help menu for hosts/services
  hosts -R                   Once the host information is stored in the database, you can use the hosts -R command to add this value to the RHOSTS parameter (after you select the desired module)
  services -S netbios        The services command used with the -S parameter allows you to search for specific services in the environment
You may want to look for low-hanging fruits such as:
  HTTP: Could potentially host a web application where you can find vulnerabilities like SQL injection or Remote Code Execution (RCE)
  FTP: Could allow anonymous login and provide access to interesting files
  SMB: Could be vulnerable to SMB exploits like MS17-010
  SSH: Could have default or easy to guess credentials
  RDP: Could be vulnerable to Bluekeep or allow desktop access if weak credentials were used

Components of Metasploit:
  auxiliary    Any supporting module, such as scanners, crawlers and fuzzers, can be found here.
  encoders     Encoders allow you to encode the exploit and payload but other specific obfuscator tools are better
  evasion      Evasion modules directly attempts to evade antivirus software
  exploits     Exploits neatly organized by target system
  nops         NOPs (No OPeration) make the CPU will do nothing for one cycle. They are often used as a buffer to achieve consistent payload sizes
  post         Post modules will be useful on the final stage of the penetration testing process

Payloads types:
  adapters     Wraps single payloads to convert them into different formats. For example, a normal single payload
               can be wrapped inside a Powershell adapter, which will make a single powershell command that will execute the payload.
  singlers     Self-contained payloads (add user, launch notepad.exe, etc.) that do not need to download an additional component to run.
  stagers      Responsible for setting up a connection channel between Metasploit and the target system. Useful when working with staged payloads. 
               Staged payloads will first upload a stager on the target system then download the rest of the payload (stage). This provides some
               advantages as the initial size of the payload will be relatively small compared to the full payload sent at once.
  stages       Downloaded by the stager. This will allow you to use larger sized payloads.
  shell_reverse_tcp    Single payload, as indicated by the “_"
  shell/reverse_tcp    Staged payload, as indicated by the “/”
               If default payload exploit doesn't run try non staged payload
               If the meterpreter session dies just run the handler again to connect
